Welcome! In this video we are going to learn how we can add timers to our
code, so that our game will automatically just progress. And here
I'm doing it after a very short amount of time but this is now, actually,
configurable by the designer, so the designer can decide how long a level will be.
Let's find out how to do that by diving right in!
So you will have noticed that when we play our game,
at the moment, there is no way for it to end other than hitting
the Spacebar. That's a bit dull and a bit boring, so what I'm going to introduce
you to is the notion of timers or how we can create timers
in Unity. So let's go into our LevelManager
script, because this is what is currently responsible for progressing our levels.
I'm just going to maximize Visual Studio. And how do
we do this? We need to keep track of some notion of time,
so I'm going to create a float
field here, and it's
going to be the timeTillNextLevel.
And I'm going to default this to being
5 seconds, just
so it's really obvious when we are transitioning.
And now, I want to introduce you to the concept of
Time.deltaTime. What is this,
I hear you ask? So Time.deltaTime
is a float, but it is basically a float
telling us the number of seconds, the time in seconds,
that this frame has taken or that has
elapsed since the last call to Update (). So every time
this is called, we get a different time value, and we can use this to
change our timeTillNextLevel. So we can
do it like so, timeTill
NextLevel -=
Time.deltaTime. So you can see we're just updating that, and
what we can do is now do
a print() of this.
And I'm just going to concatenate in timeTillNext
Level variable, remembering my semicolons. And let's
go back into Unity and just have a look and see what is being output
in our terminal! So there you go, you can see that
this timeTillNextLevel is decreasing
past 0, obviously, and starts to become negative.
This lecture's challenge is to progress after N
seconds. So you've seen that it goes down to 0 and below, now
I want you to make it progress, when that happens. So make
the timeTillNextLevel configurable, so that the game designer
can do stuff with this, change that time.
I'd like you to progress to the next level, when the time runs out, so write
the code that needs to do that. And a little bit trickier, make the
default behavior to never progress. Now, that's not very well
defined how you need to do that, you've got many different ways, but use your
knowledge and get creative and see what you can do in code. OK, so pause the
video and have a go! When you're done, share in the discussions!
OK welcome back!
It is time for me to jump in! So I'm going
to go into my code,
and the obvious thing to do is, very simply, to do an if
statement, where we do (timeTillNextLevel less
than 0). And this is the case in which we want to load our
next scene. I'm just going to put in a print statement here
to say "Load Next Scene".
I really need to do all capitals there, but let's just try it out!
So I hit play
and I should wait about 5 seconds,
and there you go, it's saying load next scene! Perfect!
So let's actually make it load the next scene! And it's
very easy, and as you can see, because we have the right level of abstraction, I can
make it very obvious what this code is doing.
I'm actually going to remove the Spacebar, because we don't need that anymore.
Our way of interacting with the system is going to be through
time, essentially. So I hit play and then I'll wait
5 seconds. 1, 2, 3,
4. There we go! And I can PLAY AGAIN! So I can go back and I'll
wait another 5 seconds and see how many I can score in these 5 seconds.
And it brings me back! Perfect! Now,
the question was, how do I make this configurable? Well
it was a bit of a simple question, you just make it public.
And if I go to the LevelManager now, you'll see
that I can change this to maybe 2 seconds, a very short
level. Now I hit play. However, the problem is
these two seconds also work on the menu screen, which is not
what we want. As you can see, I'm going to go on to
here, on to the next level. So our LevelManager is doing that for everything.
We want the default to be not to progress at all, so
I'm going to do that in a bit of an interesting way. The timeTillNextLevel
is 0. Now obviously, at the moment, this isn't
the correct behavior, so if I hit play,
then
it just goes all the way through straight away, instantly, because
well I said 0 seconds, and that condition is trivially true.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to wrap this whole thing in another if statement. I'm going to say if
(timeTillNextLevel is less than 0...
...is greater than 0,
then we will subtract stuff, and
we check whether it's less than 0. Now, can you see
what's going on here? If we do our rubber duck or
our plastic plant testing here, we can read through and say,
if it's greater than 0 then decrease it.
Now suddenly, if it's become less than 0 load the next scene. So this will only happen
once, because this decrease will only go from positive to negative
once, and if we
have 0 in the first place, this will never happen. So
let's hit save and see whether this works!
So now, obviously,
I should be moving on, and I am, because
I had set the value to be
2. If I set it back to 0, which is the default...
Remember, if you've changed the default then this has no
effect, changing this value has no effect, it'll keep the
value that you set in your game. So
let's play now! So it's set to 0, it hasn't
moved on after 2 seconds. I'll wait a little bit longer, just to check, but it doesn't look like
it is going to move on, not without me hitting the button. Now, I hit the
button and hopefully
this may be still set to the default, so let's just go and check that! Go to the Assets,
go to _Scenes, 02_Game, and then, I'll
check my LevelManager here. Yep, that's set to the default, and so I'm just going to set
that to 2 seconds. That's really obvious and quick to change.
I'll go back to my menu and start playing from there.
So I'll wait around just in case. Nope it doesn't move on.
I hit play, after 2 seconds it is game over, and I can hit
play again and carry on! Perfect! So it
looks like we have got our auto-progressing working!
Congratulations! Let's move on to the next video!